the covid-19 pandemic is the latest chapter in the “tale of two health systems” saga that has played out in the u.s. during every public health crisis dating back centuries. the pandemic has disproportionately devastated communities of color, proving that we can no longer ignore the need to address health inequities in a real way. this threat is so existential in nature that according to a recent cdc study, african americans lost 2.7 years of life expectancy while latinx individuals lost nearly two years of life expectancy. to those of us who have dedicated our careers to dismantling these inequities, the deep impact of covid-19 on communities of color was not a surprise. throughout our country’s history, the same disadvantaged groups suffer the most during natural disasters, wars, pandemics and other major crises. and, when it comes to pandemics, we have never been successful in taking what we’ve learned to ensure resources reach those in greatest need. so, how do we achieve an equitable, proactive response when there’s not an equitable foundation, blueprint or clear starting point? early on in the pandemic, the public health community realized that data availability—or the lack thereof—was a key problem. although there have historically been challenges in data collection and reporting in these communities, the covid-19 pandemic provides an opportunity to turn the tide for our most vulnerable. as a nation, we must prioritize and invest in the role of data and technology in closing the gap of disparities in outcomes and in driving equitable access to testing, vaccines and delivery of health services. since its inception, the satcher health leadership institute (shli) at morehouse school of medicine in atlanta has been a trailblazer in the health equity space. as we began exploring ways to overcome the data problem, we partnered with the cdc foundation to bring diverse leaders to the table to form the health equity task force. we then invited google.org, gilead sciences and the annie e. casey foundation to the table to help us understand what health equity data are already being collected and to identify the data gaps that currently exist. through this cross-sector collaborative process, we learned that if we can collect and clearly present the data, we can provide the basis for driving the response toward the areas in most need. the health equity tracker project was created as a way to do just that. during the last eight months, a team of google.org fellows, including google software engineers, product managers, ux researchers and designers, data analysts and more have been working with shli to identify and analyze quality public data sources with the goal of creating an easy-to-use, public facing data platform that displays and contextualizes health disparities communities of color face throughout the u.s. this health equity tracker will map data on the trajectory of covid-19 cases, hospitalizations, deaths and vaccinations across the u.s., including its territories, broken down by race, ethnicity, gender, socioeconomic status and other critical factors down to the county level, where available. the data, in turn, will help policy makers, health care executives and business leaders better understand how to ensure disproportionately affected communities receive the targeted resources and support they need, such as the creation of culturally relevant resources for community-based organizations to help build confidence and bolster equitable access to information related to covid-19 vaccines, to battle the virus and close racial gaps. but the health equity tracker project is just one way in which data and technology are helping communities of color hardest hit by covid-19. we now know enough to know there’s still more to be done. we want to issue a call-to-action across all sectors—public, private, academic—to come to the table. we implore you to zoom out on your organization to look at how you’re using technology to reach your target audience, and how you might leverage those data and insights to help solve one of the most pressing humanitarian issues of our time. through our work building the health equity tracker, we continue to find significant gaps in race and ethnicity case data , and until we have the full picture, we won’t be able to truly understand and address the disparities in the covid-19 pandemic in the u.s. contact your local, state or federal representatives to advocate for centralized, comprehensive reporting on covid-19 cases, hospitalizations, deaths and vaccines at the county level. a national strategy, ongoing and substantial investments, diverse working groups and federal policies are also necessary to deepen the impact of the important work we’ve started. if we harness the power of data and technology to address health inequities, building a transformative and inclusive response to covid-19 is absolutely possible. stephanie accolla's career was on the rise. as a banquet manager with a contracting company that worked with the boston convention and exhibition center, she prided herself on being a hardworking woman in management in her industry. she and her husband were on the verge of buying a home after years of saving money. her dream was to give her 10-year-old stepson a place with a backyard where he could run. then it all came to a halt. accolla, 34, was released from her contract in april and filed for unemployment benefits along with millions of other people who found themselves without work as the coronavirus pandemic transformed the american economy — and people's lives. suddenly accolla found herself as the full-time caretaker of her stepson, who has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and whose school switched to remote learning. the family now has only the income of her husband, who is a damage appraiser at an auto body shop. the money they had saved for a down payment on a home now had to be spent on necessities, and the family had to rely on food stamps and free meals provided by the government. they now struggle to pay out-of-pocket health care expenses. "if we didn't have any of the food stamps or the state assistance that we do have, i don't know what we would do," she said. the sudden blow of losing one income has sent the family tumbling from relative comfort to living week to week. "it did take a huge, huge toll on me, and i still suffer with it constantly," accolla said. "it's terrifying." the pandemic upended the lives of millions of families who suddenly found themselves without one or both sources of income. many have gone from enjoying the cultural markers of the middle class — job stability, homeownership and some disposable income — to teetering on the edge of poverty. some experts fear the effects could be long-lasting. according to the u.s. census bureau, 115 million people had experienced losses in employment income from the start of the pandemic in march 2020 through last month. and according to a pew research center report released this month, more than 4 in 10 adults say they or someone else in their households had lost jobs or wages since the beginning of the pandemic. even with unemployment insurance, which struggled with claim delays amid unprecedented demand, and other benefits, the impact could have ramifications for years, economic experts and advocates said. the pew research center survey found that about half of nonretired adults said the economic impact of the pandemic will make it harder for them to achieve their long-term financial goals. among those who said their financial situations had gotten worse, 44 percent said they thought it would take them three years or more to get back to where they were a year ago, and about 1 in 10 said they didn't think their finances would ever recover. elise gould, a senior economist with the economic policy institute, a nonprofit research organization, said lower- and middle-income families alike were vulnerable to major economic instability after losses of income. "it's incredibly destabilizing in the short run," she said. "people just simply don't have the savings to be able to weather job losses or to cut back on hours or furloughs to be able to continue paying their bills," she said. losing a home, facing declines in its credit score or the continued inability to get a job could also affect a family long after the pandemic is over, she said. accolla said it took six or seven years to build what her family had, "and it went away within the quickness of one year." facing credit card debt and having to spend their savings, she wonders just when they will be able to recover. "are we going to be able to recover again? will we get back to a place of comfortability? will we be able to have a home?" she asked. elizabeth ananat, an economics professor at barnard college in new york city, said the pandemic led to major workforce declines. some people are unable to work because of responsibilities such as being caregivers, and others want to work but have given up looking. food insecurity has skyrocketed, she said, especially among families with young children. "they've lost more jobs, and of course those are children who need to be cared for all the time," she said, adding that the income losses have translated directly into "these really severe material hardships," such as evictions or the threats of them and increases in hunger. the losses have been especially devastating for women, as well as black and latino families, she said. naomi cahn, director of the family law center at the university of virginia school of law, said the pandemic has had a "disproportionate impact on families of color." "that's a really, really important part of the story," she said. in an analysis of data collected last month in the census bureau's household pulse survey, the research organization child trends found that 24 percent of u.s. adults in households with children, or 1 in 4, reported having limited confidence that they would be able to make their next rent or mortgage payments on time. among black households with children, the number was 40 percent. the biden administration has said its $1.9 trillion relief package will lift 11 million people out of poverty "and cut child poverty in half." "that could provide at least some temporary stability for many families," cahn said. she said she and advocates for families hoped that measures in the package, such as an expanded child tax credit, would become permanent to seriously address family economic security. shanita matthews, an independent contracting nurse in georgia, had started a small wedding decor business in may 2019 before the pandemic hit. then she found out that her 7-year-old daughter's school was going remote in march and shut her business down. "it really put me between a rock and a hard place, because i couldn't get a nursing job, simply because most of those jobs are eight to 12 hours long," she said. in july, matthews, 41, filed for pandemic unemployment assistance, special unemployment compensation for people who don't ordinarily qualify for unemployment benefits, including those who are self-employed, independent contractors and parents unable to work because of child care needs during the pandemic. she said she was denied after a monthslong process, including an appeal, and was told she didn't qualify because she didn't make enough with her business and because she had filed her application while her daughter wasn't in remote learning. she has filed a petition to have her case looked at again. "i was terrified and desperate, because there were big balances on my gas, electric and water bill, business credit card," she said. the family has had to rely on her husband's income from an auto collision center, where he works on commission. previously, with her income, the two were used to sharing the burden of paying the bills. she and her husband used to be able to put away savings. they could afford a babysitter and go out on date nights twice a month. they would take anniversary trips in the fall and vacation with their daughter in the spring or summer. now, the family has had to face having the lights disconnected. her car was repossessed in september, and her husband's was repossessed in october. their internet was cut off. her husband was working 70-hour weeks just so they could pay their mortgage. she lost some of her certifications in nursing because they expired and she couldn't afford to replace them, further limiting the jobs she could take. "you lose so much when you lose your income. it's almost like you lose your credibility," she said. while she was eventually able to afford to get her proper nursing requirements renewed, she is still unable to commit to the type of hours a nursing job would require, with her daughter's school having opened and then gone remote again because of the pandemic. matthews said she believed the pandemic would have a long-term impact on her career and wages, because she hasn't been able to work as a nurse for a year. "so, when i go back in, i'm going to have less negotiating power to make sure i'm compensated for not only my education but the time i've spent building my cardiology background," she said. although she said the recent stimulus check provided a much needed boost to buy essentials, the family is still trying to get by. "i'm telling you that it can really mess with your sanity to go through changes significant like that we've gone through," she said. while the pandemic has had devastating impacts for people of all ages, research published in october found that older workers have experienced higher unemployment than those in their midcareer years and that workers 55 and older have lost their jobs more quickly and returned to work more slowly. carol, 61, a travel consultant from denver, lost her job at a travel agency during the pandemic. after 41 years in the industry, she has found herself unable to get another job at her age despite vigorously applying, she said. "when i lost my job, i knew it was not going to be very easy to find another job. but i think i even underestimated it," said carol, who asked that her last name not be used out of fear of future employment issues. previously, her income accounted for two-thirds of what she and her husband, who is a merchandiser with a beer company, brought home. "the stress on my marriage has really been a difficult thing. i've been married almost 39 years, and i don't think we've ever had such a hard time," she said. once comfortable with both of their salaries, they now look for discounts when they shop for groceries, or they strategize what to buy and when. that comes as one of their adult sons moved back into their home during the pandemic. while they used to be able to help their two sons financially if they needed it, that's no longer an option. carol is thankful that she owns her home so she doesn't have to worry about ending up on the street. but property taxes, car payments and insurance payments add up. carol said she continues to look for work but is starting to become more convinced that she is done in the workforce unless travel agencies or airlines begin hiring again. "a lot of people say, 'regardless of your stellar credentials, we've decided to pursue other candidates at this time.' those take a little bit of your soul every time you get them," she said. it’s never been possible to know for sure how many people in the united states are sick with covid-19 at a particular time. instead, we combine all of the metrics — the percentage of tests run that come back positive, the number of new cases reported each day, people coming to the emergency room sick with covid-19 symptoms — to get an estimate. it’s like the story of the blind men and the elephant: experts can feel out the different pieces of information to get a sense of what an outbreak looks like, even when they can’t see it directly. we’ve seen the same elephant emerge over and over again over the past year. first, the percentage of tests that come back positive increases. after a slight lag, hospitalizations start to rise, and then deaths. but this time, there’s a new wrinkle: vaccinations. that’s going to change the pattern and make the covid-19 trends over the next few weeks and months harder to interpret. one of the most important data points to track the virus’s spread has been the number of people hospitalized with covid-19-like illness at a particular time. it’s a concrete metric. if someone is so sick that they need to be hospitalized, they’re usually in the hospital. other measures, like the case rate and test positivity rate, are finicky; they fluctuate based on how many people decide to get tested. if someone is so sick that they need to be hospitalized, they’re usually in the hospital “hospitalizations are our hard outcome. everything else is so dependent on testing,” says melissa mcpheeters, co-director of the center for improving the public’s health through informatics at vanderbilt university. that’s why we’ve looked to hospitalization trends to get a sense of the direction of the pandemic, even when case rates wobble. now, covid-19 cases are starting to go up again in the united states. but this time, over 70 percent of people over the age of 65 in the united states have received a first dose of a covid-19 vaccine. that’s the group that, if they catch the virus, is most likely to be hospitalized or to die. now they’re vaccinated — and their risk of hospitalization and death is incredibly small. that could throw our normal data patterns out of whack. cases could go up because many states are relaxing restrictions while most people still aren’t vaccinated. but the unvaccinated people getting sick may be younger and less likely to be hospitalized. a newsletter highlighting the covid-19 research, developments, and stories that matter. subscribe here! our normal method of visualizing the elephant wouldn’t work anymore. it’s a good problem to have — fewer people in the hospital is a wonderful victory. but when case numbers wobble and testing goes up and down, hospitalizations will no longer be a reliable backstop to clarify what’s happening with the pandemic. “i don’t know that we can get as good of a sample of what’s going on in the community,” mcpheeters says. it might mean that we need to recalibrate the way we monitor the pandemic. maybe there will be fewer people in the hospital, but we could take a closer look at that group, for example. if lots of people from one area of a city are in the hospital, or people who work in a similar industry, that might be a signal that there is more virus in that particular community — which could help people to determine their risk and show officials where to direct resources. “it’s not just how many people, it’s who is ending up in the hospital,” mcpheeters says. for the past year, people have scrutinized covid-19 metrics to guide decisions on how they should behave — whether to send kids to school, meet up with a few friends, or get groceries delivered. eventually, as more people get vaccinated, new patterns could start to emerge that might guide that analysis. and when the pandemic starts to fade, we won’t have to scrutinize the covid-19 numbers quite as closely. but for now, everything is in flux, and we can’t assume that a number means the same thing today as it did in january. here’s what else happened this week. research unlocking the covid code take a deep dive into the world of genetic sequencing — and explore how this tool could change public health in a post-pandemic world. (jon gertner / the new york times) no one can find the animal that gave people covid-19 groups are searching for the animal that first passed the virus that causes covid-19 to humans, kicking off the pandemic. it’s not an easy task, and international politics is making it that much harder. (anthony regalado / mit tech review) development astrazeneca’s wild ride on monday, astrazeneca announced that its vaccine was 79 percent effective. the next day, the government issued an incredibly unusual public rebuke of the company, saying those numbers were outdated. astrazeneca released new numbers later this week finding that it was really 76 percent effective. whew. in the end, it's a pretty good vaccine with a bad communications problem. the fda committee hearings for this one are going to be interesting. (nicole wetsman / the verge) pfizer begins testing its vaccine in young children children under 12 are starting to participate in clinical trials for covid-19 vaccines. pfizer and moderna are both starting their own trials to test how well the vaccines work in younger patients — and whether they are safe. (apoorva mandavilli / the new york times) perspectives there were the two weeks in the summer when all she could smell was phantom smoke. the odor was so strong that she woke up one morning startled, convinced that something in her house was on fire. sometime later, she was able to smell her boyfriend’s cologne again—but instead of the familiar scent she had always loved, it was a sickening chemical odor. there’s also the hand soap at work, which used to smell generically fruity to her but now smells exactly, and eerily, like burger king whoppers. — sarah zhang writes about ruby martinez’s experience recovering her sense of smell after covid-19 in the atlantic. as of december 10, my health-care plan had billed me for $536,000. my plan paid for most of it, but i still owe around $150,000. that doesn’t include my bill for the implant. the medical bills lag; it takes months for things to come through. at first, it was stressful for me to look at them, but now it’s a joke. i look at them and think, i don’t know how to pay that. my premium is $750 a month, and my co-workers have been chipping in to cover that. — liza fisher tells journalist wudan yan about the costs of covid-19 in a story for intelligencer. more than numbers to the more than 505 million people who have been vaccinated — thank you. to the more than 125,864,307 people worldwide who have tested positive, may your road to recovery be smooth. to the families and friends of the 2,761,409 people who have died worldwide — 547,756 of those in the us — your loved ones are not forgotten. stay safe, everyone. embed >more news videos friday the state began taking action to address first signs of a possible resurgence of the virus. cook county to release 25,000 1st dose appointments sunday embed >more news videos cook county to release 25,000 1st dose appointments starting sunday at noon. gov. pritzker gets covid vaccine embed >more news videos governor jb pritzker receives a johnson & johnson covid vaccine at the illinois state fairgrounds in springfield wednesday, chicago (wls) -- the illinois department of public health officials reported 2,678 new confirmed and probable cases of covid-19 and 25 deaths saturday.idph reported a total of 1,235,578 covid-19 cases, including 21,228 deaths, since the beginning of the pandemic.as of friday night, 1,335 patients in illinois were reported to be in the hospital with covid-19. of those, 264 patients were in the icu and 115 patients with covid-19 were on ventilators.since march 8, illinois has seen 10 days of increases in the seven-day rolling average for hospital admissions, up 20% to 30% in two weeks across the advocate aurora health system.the covid-19 test positivity on march 10 was 2.5%. saturday's reported test positivity is 3.4%. while these rates are certainly significantly lower than the peak, they represent a potential early warning sign about a possible resurgence.cook county health will release 25,000 appointments for people get their first dose of the pfizer vaccine.anyone eligible under phases 1-a, 1-b, 1-b+ and approved essential workers can sign up starting at noon.the shots will be given at triton college, south suburban college, des plaines and forest park.in addition anyone previously classified as 1c in higher, education, government, media, restaurants, construction trades, and religious leaders, will be eligible to schedule an appointment.appointments can be made at vaccine.cookcountyil.gov or by calling 833-308-1988, monday - friday from 7 a.m. - 7 p.m. the call center will be open sunday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.chicago has seen its daily case rate increase by nearly 50% since last week, along with six days of increases in test positivity. suburban cook county has seen its daily case rate increase more than 40%, along with nine days of increasing hospital bed usage. region 1, the northern portion of the state including rockford and surrounding communities, has seen eight days of increasing hospital bed usage and six days of increasing test positivity.an advocate aurora health system doctor said the vast majority of cases they're seeing are unvaccinated people.in response, the state is moving mobile vaccination teams into areas where they see a concerning uptick in cases, and loosening the vaccine eligibility criteria in others. all of these metrics could delay how quickly the state moves into the bridge step of phase 4 reopening plans.within the past 24 hours, laboratories have reported testing 96,175 specimens for a total of 20,068,566 since the pandemic began.the preliminary seven-day statewide test positivity from march 20-26 is 3.4%. for the past 14 days, test positivity has either held steady or increased each day, climbing from 2.5% to 3.4%.a total of 6,227,895 doses of vaccine have been delivered to providers in illinois, including chicago, with an additional 414,900 doses allocated to federal government partners for long-term care facilities, bringing the total number delivered in illinois to 6,692,795.a total of 5,418,211 vaccines have been administered in illinois as of thursday night, including 366,675 for long-term care facilities. the seven-day rolling average of vaccines administered daily is 99,936 doses. there were 136,593 doses reported administered in illinois friday.the idph said it is working with the federal government on possible discrepancies in the reporting of the number of vaccines administered. idph said it is possible the number of doses administered is underreported and that it will update its data if a discrepancy is found.gov. jb pritzker is allowing health departments in areas where the demand for vaccines among eligible groups is declining to open up shots to anyone 16 and over now instead of waiting until april 12 when it's allowed statewide.while all communities will continue to receive their baseline allocation of doses, new doses above that baseline will be allocated to high-demand areas where at-risk eligible residents face long waits for appointments.mobile rapid response vaccination teams will deploy over the next two weeks in five counties in region 1 where idph epidemiologists have determined there is a need to administer doses quickly to blunt increasing trends. these doses are on top of the allocation to the local health departments. these mobile teams will be providing single-shot johnson & johnson vaccine to county residents. appointments will be coordinated by the local health department.residents of region 1 are also encouraged to visit the existing mass vaccination site set up in winnebago county.while illinois is on pace to reach 70% first doses for residents 65 years and older in the coming days, idph is monitoring an increase in new hospital admissions for covid, which will need to be appropriately addressed and resolved before moving into the bridge phase. idph epidemiologists will continue to focus on the most recent 10 days to monitor any acute trends that prevent the state from reaching the bridge phase.the deaths reported saturday include:- cook county: 1 female 60s, 1 male 60s, 1 female 70s, 2 males 70s, 1 male 80s- dupage county: 1 male 60s, 1 male 70s- johnson county: 1 female 80s- lasalle county: 1 male 80s- lee county: 1 male 50s- madison county: 1 female 50s, 1 male 50s, 2 females 70s, 1 male 70s, 1 male 90s- monroe cunty: 1 female 60s- vermilion county: 1 male 90s- will county: 1 male 50s, 1 male 60s, 1 female 70s, 1 male 70s, 1 female 80s- winnebago county: 1 female 80s 