the m1 chip macs showed that on the mac could be better — running big-time rather well, even without a discrete graphics card. that said, the whole concept of on the mac is still years behind where it should be. and that needs to change. the issues start with the still-frustrating and alarming lack of important games, which give pcs an instant leg up. apple's issues also threaten its relationship with the creative community, something the company has always prided itself on. and last, but not least, apple is still trying to figure out the situation with its apple tv, which was supposed to be buoyed by gaming. while i've been thinking about the woes of on the mac for a while, it came back into the headlines now that valve released steam link for macos. steam link, for those who don't know, allows you to stream pc onto a mac, but it has a major catch. you need to own the pc you're streaming from. i can think of a few edge-cases where this could be valuable, but most people i assume would just play the on the pc, rather than also run it on a mac remotely. more interesting are cloud alternatives, such as nvidia geforce experience and google stadia (as much as it seems to be a failed project). but neither seems to be truly complete at this stage, giving me reason to wonder when the mac will find its way with gaming. streaming is not new, by any stretch, but when i finally started streaming this winter, it was mostly possible because i had a pc i could use. and this is hilarious to me because i've resisted using a pc for far longer than i've had an interest in streaming. i spent a month on the matebook x pro forever ago, but because pc didn't matter to me then, i saw little reason to stay. but now i'm back, and i'm seeing how pcs could lure long-time mac users away. the big are missing — and that's a problem i personally turned to using a pc because of wanting to stream persona 4 golden, a jrpg from 2012 originally released on the ps vita, that was released on steam for pcs (and not macs) last summer. the fact that we haven't gotten a mac version in the following months is maddening. when i tested the macbook air with m1, i saw 2015's rise of the tomb raider run smoothly on the system. other sites have even reported 2018's shadows of the tomb raider also runs well on that same laptop. and if those can do well on the mac, there's no reason that atlus' persona aren't on the mac. look at the top sellers on steam — half-life: alyx, valheim, outriders, cyberpunk 2077 and the witcher 3 — none of them have a macos version. and this situation isn't limited to this one weird relatively-old game. look at the top sellers on steam — half-life: alyx, valheim, outriders, cyberpunk 2077 and the witcher 3 — none of them have a macos version. yes, there is software such as parallels and crossover from codeweavers, which allows emulation of pc on the mac, but that's not good enough. apple has been working on its metal framework to get to run better (having switched to it from opengl) but that still hasn't led to the change in availability of titles that mac-owning gamers need or deserve. so at this point, it's on apple to improve its developer relationships. i don't know how they'd do it, but at this point in the game, it should not be hard to find the you want on the mac. maybe developers don't want to give up a cut of their earnings via the mac app store. i get that. apple probably wants that cut, and to make purchases as simple as using apple arcade, but it hasn't worked so far. sure, there are some good mobile (sayonara wild hearts and grindstone were early hits), but it's got nothing that can touch the likes of a dark souls game, for example. while apple is pushing apple arcade, and its hyped title fantasian (coming from final fantasy creator hironobu sakaguchi), the subscription service doesn't feel like enough. yes, a big exclusive may help drive attention, but not all gamers want to buy another subscription service, not when xbox pass and playstation plus already eat at your budget. apple's big streamers problem for as long ago as i can remember, the old saying went that creative professionals only used macs. whenever i worked in layout software for printed publications — it was always on a mac. but the mac's dominance in the creative world is not what it used to be. now, the pc versions of the adobe suite of applications have reached parity. don't take my word for it, that's what i'm reading on reddit, quora and creative pro, too. and now we have streamers. a new (and often younger) group of creators, producing hours and hours of video for twitch, youtube and other platforms. and if they wanted to use a mac to and record said gaming, they'd have to be using either a capture card to connect to a console, or emulation to run big from other platforms. macs aren't priced competitively enough to be so deficient when it comes to — and this needs to end. while the former is the standard for many streamers, the latter is putting too much friction in the way of performance. you want your videos to look crisp and smooth, and while the m1 chip macs can get to run smoothly in the moment, pushing your mac to stream that video out at the same time is a lot to ask when emulation is involved. the more that are written for apple silicon macs, the better things will be for mac owners who want to use their device. the sooner macs get big-name games, the sooner they can have a better reputation among this new, growing market. what about the apple tv? and at the center of apple's story lies a story of unfulfilled promise on the apple tv. the company is likely to release a new apple tv 2021 this spring at the rumored apple april event. and while i'd rather apple focus its efforts outside of apple arcade — the next apple tv is a crucial part of making that service important. and it will need more than just the aforementioned fantasian. apple has long said that will be great on the apple tv, and it's time for that claim to come true. if the next apple tv runs on the next generation of apple silicon — that's as powerful as its next laptops and desktops — it could help the company make developers think the apple tv is worth developing for. and even worth the cut apple would take from sold in its online stores (since tvos is a walled garden, much like ios). apple needs to find a way to put the apple tv icon alongside the playstation, xbox, pc and stadia logos in commercials. important would give the apple tv a reason to continue existing — which it sorely needs. right now, the $179 apple tv 4k is 265% more expensive than the $50 roku streaming stick plus and chromecast with google tv. mac outlook macs aren't priced competitively enough to be so deficient when it comes to — and this needs to end. yes, intel's 'justin' ad featuring the former apple spokesperson was incredibly cringe-worthy, but it nailed a solid point: pc is just that much better than mac gaming. if apple can turn this ship around, though, it could keep them in good graces with the next generation and/or give their streaming device a reason to exist. i don't know what apple's next steps in are, but as someone who is considering buying the upcoming macbook pro 2021, i hope they get this fixed. i simply prefer the creative applications on macos over their pc counterparts, and the overall os is designed better in my humble opinion. but if you made me pick a new pc or a new macbook, i'd have a hard time being sure about my decision. and i could not have imagined myself saying that a year ago. autoblog may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. pricing and availability are subject to change. this week in racing news: 'rocket league sideswipe' is coming to mobile later this year we got word earlier this week that psyonix is releasing a "rocket league" mobile called "rocket league sideswipe." from what we can tell, it looks like a slightly modified 2d version of "rocket league" for touchscreens. it seems to be getting more and more trendy to bring a watered-down version of an already established console or pc racing to mobile as an attempt to win over a chunk of the astronomical player base of 2.2 billion mobile gamers. after all, there are now mobile versions of "mario kart," "f1," "need for speed," "grid," "project cars," and countless others. we get it, going after a piece of a 2.2 billion person pie probably seems like a no-brainer, but we have to wonder, are any of these clearly-not-as-good-as-the-original mobile versions of really making all that much of an impact? while we're confident "rocket league sideswipe" will be fun, we wonder if it will be fun enough to be worth more than a few a week for a month or two before it gets old and forgotten, like so many other of its ilk. lucky for us, we won't have to wait too long to find out since the will be released at an undetermined date later this year. 'dirt 5' is releasing its uproar content pack and 4.0 update on march 30 "dirt 5" is continuing to stay fresh by dropping another new content pack including new cars, new career events and more. the paid portion of the update will unlock four new cars, 25 career events, two new career sponsors, new livery options, stickers and lanyards. all of that content will be free for anyone who owns the amplified edition of the or the year one upgrade, and for everyone else, it'll cost $12.49. there's more, though, with a new after hours playgrounds update that will be free for everyone, regardless of which version of the you own. the free-for-everyone portion of the update includes 20+ new items for the custom arena creator mode and nighttime options for multiple event locations. also, the will be adding new "iconic liveries" for the bmw m1 procar, subaru wrx sti rx supercar, subaru impreza s4 rally, and mitsubishi lancer evolution vi. you can read our thoughts on the game's initial release right here. if you're interested in checking out the for yourself, here's where you can pick it up. digital learning has become significant in education as a result of the pandemic and schools are continually looking at new ways to engage and motivate students online. historically, has been associated with recreational activities rather than as a medium to boost and diversify learning engagement. the question is, does have a viable role to play right now, as digital learning continues to claw its way to the forefront of education, or is it simply an unwelcome distraction? from a parent perspective, over exposure to and excessive screen time is an ongoing concern for many. likewise, many schools have been slow to introduce gamification into classroom-based lessons, due to fears that it could distract and damage concentration. today, that picture is very different. schools are becoming far more used to using fit for purpose technology, not only to advance access to learning but also to bring a new dimension to the classroom. as with all learning, variety is key and if the recent period of remote learning has taught us anything, it’s that children can thrive using a multitude of tools, both physically in class and remotely online. has the potential to become a great educational tool in the right context and environment. teaching a healthier approach to video is also important to maximise the opportunities for learning and curb unhealthy habits. let’s play regardless of age and disposition, as human beings we gravitate towards play; whether that means taking part in all manner of sports and games, enjoying crafts, playing board games, musical instruments, attending events or simply enjoying some social time with friends or family. we are naturally driven towards the social act of ‘playing’. on that basis, it’s a natural progression for educators to consider how play might be incorporated into the classroom experience from a digital perspective to increase attainment. evokes that collegial sense of play, which young people are drawn to. yet, aside from being entertaining and challenging, can have a far bigger impact on learning that one might first think. “implemented in the right way, can help to hone and nurture lots of transferrable skills, from problem-solving to literacy and technical ability” implemented in the right way, can help to hone and nurture lots of transferrable skills, from problem-solving to literacy and technical ability. as schools, we are well aware that happiness usually results in greater academic attainment and achievement. if teachers can somehow ‘gamify’ certain aspects of the learning process, perhaps some of the more stressful elements of classroom-based learning could be negated? considering short bursts of a tricky game, for instance, might fuel that much-needed boost of energy and motivation in class, which helps to refocus and reset the brain ready for the next task. equally, often have the ability to provide feedback and, in some cases, can be customised to the individual child’s ability, needs and preference. advertisement boosting lateral thinking most digital platforms work on tried and tested methodology, which often takes the form of challenge, progression, reward and recognition. playing video in the context of a maths lesson, for example, might also inspire certain attributes like determination and persistence, which in turn evokes community and creativity. from that perspective, we could use to help us to think more laterally and with more agility, about how we might solve a particular problem. using skills developed via may well help students tackle challenges and evaluate with fresh eyes. there are of course different that stimulate different responses and states of mind and it’s important that schools are mindful of this and choose the right kinds of to bolster the learning experience. not all will be educationally-driven or effective in the classroom; some more useful are known to activate the same blood flow patterns in the brain as meditation – these can help to focus minds, cultivate calm and boost mood. using this kind of approach to online learning could be a great way of keeping students grounded and on track. trickier puzzles can also increase dopamine levels in the brain, which is a neurotransmitter that increases work ethic and power. for older students with a challenging gcse module to complete, these may be useful to help them focus. putting into practice for schools, it’s a case of researching what’s out there and putting appropriate into practice. interestingly, popular game, assassin’s creed: odyssey, includes a robust education mode and a research-based recreation of ancient greece, which can be useful as another dimension, for students studying classical civilisation or history, for example. other teachers have been using such as roblox and minecraft to demonstrate scientific principles like climate change or cellular biology. minecraft launched an educational mode in 2016 which microsoft has since made free for educators and students. the edition comes with a suite of pre-made lesson plans. it provides a gamified way of capturing evidence of what students are learning as well as elevating the mastery of the subjects they are studying. teachers can also use the to model geometric concepts in maths, the effects of climate change and rising sea levels etc. is fun, as many students will tell you. but stopping at this, is in reality, limiting the potential opportunity for its use across more mainstream education. like adults, many children will struggle to focus on the same thing for long periods of time, so diversity of teaching tools and combining with educational goals can really help. due to it its versatility and opportunity for team collaboration and leadership, has great potential for boosting skills and refining abilities in the classroom. as with anything this is all about balance, it is about using a variety of teaching methods, both online and offline to improve the overall learning experience and also to learn from the recent period of remote learning and bring some of that success to the forefront as we move forward into a future that will be increasingly shaped by the modern digital world. you might also like: serious games: more than just a gimmick? al murar, united arab emirates, march 27, 2021 /prnewswire/ -- diamondcon is one of the fastest rising call of duty league players in the world, and part of the subliners esports team. he is the first ever professional esports player to introduce an nft into the ever-growing community of fps gaming. having established a considerable following on twitch and twitter, his followers will soon be able to purchase an nft of diamondcon and claim bragging rights to that 200 iq clip. diamondcon https://twitter.com/diamondcon_/status/1373060352636764165?s=21 nfts: hot off the press gamers spend loads of cash on skins, passes and in-game purchases, yet they never owned any of them. nfts will be the change that revolutionizes the industry. money spent in will no longer be a bad investment. no one knew about nfts a year ago, and now it's the new craze. remember when they said that streaming will never be a career? look where the industry is now. the diamondcon nft will be the first in the cod universe, and owning it will be an investment that is not to be missed. imagine how much an nft of your favorite cod player will be worth in a few years. for anyone who's hyped about the release, the diamondcon nft is set to drop in the coming days, so keep your eyes peeled on diamondcon's twitter to get this hot nft before it sells out! about wearegrowthhackers wearegrowthhackers are one of the world's premier growth hacking and nft marketing agencies. they've made millions for their clients using little-known, ("out of the box") growth hacking techniques and they're now applying it to the hyper trend of the nft world. create your nft and growth hack it today. media contact details contact name: bob wazneh contact email: [email protected] diamondcon is the source of this content. this press release is for informational purposes only. the information does not constitute investment advice or an offer to invest. related images image1.png source diamondcon 