what's included with a digital only subscription, you'll receive unlimited access to our website and e-edition. our digital products are available 24/7 and are accessible anywhere, anytime. if you have any questions or need further assistance, please call our customer service team at 814-368-3173 or email nfinnerty@oleantimesherald.com. with apologies to the super bowl, world series, stanley cup finals, nba playoffs and the world cornhole championships, the first two rounds of the ncaa men’s basketball tournament is the greatest spectacle in sports. the basketball is astounding, but there is an even greater entertainment value — grown men reduced to tears because a no. 15 seed destroyed their bracket with a first-round upset. listening to the wailing and gnashing of teeth over busted brackets is nearly as entertaining as charles barkley’s halftime analysis. and, when it comes to upsets, the 2021 tournament has had a bumper crop. no less than eight double-digit seeds advanced in the first round. granted, some of those low seeds are from power conferences no. 11 ucla, no. 11 syracuse and no. 12 oregon state, but that leaves upstarts like no. 13 ohio, no. 14 abilene christian, and no. 15 oral roberts to create additional carnage. ironically, oral roberts has dashed the prayers of amateur handicappers throughout the country, taking down no. 2 ohio state and no. 7 florida. personally, these upsets are precisely the reason i love the first two rounds of the ncaa tournament. the upsets point out the flaw in the “logic” of many sports fans. in recent years, analytics have taken center stage in too many sports discussions. before you fire off an angry email, i’m not dismissing the value of metrics. i’m saying games cannot be solely reduced to numbers. analytics don’t factor in the human element. math allows no provisions for heart, hard work, discipline and the collective effect of five teammates working as a single unit. and, as brian sutter, former coach of the st. louis blues stated, “hard work is a skill too.” when the salukis made their ncaa tournament runs earlier in this century, i watched siu teams dismantle bigger, stronger, faster teams. the salukis were able to win because they out-worked, out-hustled, out-gutted more talented teams. and, when the chips were on the line, the salukis could fall back on a system that incorporated the skills of all five players on the floor. they didn’t rely on one person to go one-on-five against the opposition. those intangibles are enough to defeat more talented opponents. loyola, this year’s missouri valley conference, champion is demonstrating those same virtues. undervalued, like virtually all mvc teams, the crusaders were an 8-seed. porter moser’s club would be the talk of the tournament if it weren’t for oral roberts. in two games loyola has knocked off georgia tech, the acc tournament champion, and illinois, the big ten tournament champion. and, while we’re plugging the mvc, let’s not forget that drake defeated wichita state, an mvc defector in a first four game. in a sense, it is frustrating that the ncaa continues to overvalue teams from the power 5 conferences over the likes of loyola. on the other hand, it makes me smile every time i see an expert confounded by the number of upsets. in the end, there is a high degree of certainty a team from a power 5 conference will emerge as the national champion. depth and the advantages of financial resources will eventually push one of the big teams over the top. as bruce weber once explained to me, mid-majors have to execute nearly perfectly to defeat big ten, acc and sec teams. it’s not that difficult to play two or three nearly perfect games in a row, but to maintain that level of play for six games … that takes superhuman effort. that’s why i normally lose interest in the tournament about the time the field is whittled down to eight teams — i really don’t care which team from a power 5 conference emerges. on the other hand, if oral roberts or loyola is still alive, all bets are off. tennessee has become the third state to pass a bill keeping school sports separated based on sex at birth. the state followed in the footsteps of mississippi and arkansas in enacting legislation that supporters argue will protect women's sports. republican gov. bill lee previously claimed that transgender athlete participation would "destroy women’s sports." he signed the bill on friday. "i signed the bill to preserve women's athletics and ensure fair competition," lee tweeted. "this legislation responds to damaging federal policies that stand in opposition to the years of progress made under title ix and i commend members of the general assembly for their bipartisan work." critics of the bill claim it will lead to legal challenges that will cause needless economic loss, the tennessean reported. others argue the controversial bill will deter tourists. mississippi governor signs bill banning transgender athletes from female sports mississippi gov. tate reeves signed a similar bill on march 11 mandating the separation of sports based on sex at birth. mississippi republicans have said the law, which will affect state schools and universities, is a necessary response to president biden’s day-one executive order calling on schools across the country to allow students to participate in sports under their chosen gender identity. "this important piece of legislation will ensure that young girls in mississippi have a fair, level playing field in public school sports," reeves said after signing the bill. "it sends a clear message to my daughters and all of mississippi’s daughters that their rights are worth fighting for." mississippi passes transgender ban in girls sports arkansas gov. asa hutchinson, also a republican, on thursday signed the fairness in women’s sports act, after the measure passed through the state house with overwhelming support earlier this week. "this law simply says that female athletes should not have to compete in a sport against a student of the male sex when the sport is designed for women’s competition," hutchinson said in a statement. "this will help promote and maintain fairness in women’s sporting events." approximately 25 bills have popped up across the nation as conservatives fight to protect opportunities for biological females in sports. champions for lgbtq rights have condemned each bill, saying that they are not about "protecting fairness" but "erasing and excluding trans people from … all aspects of public life." click here to get the fox news app "this discriminatory policy is illegal," said sam brinton of the trevor project, a national group providing transgender youths with crisis prevention services. "the trevor project is here 24/7 to support trans youth in tennessee and across the country who feel hurt and invalidated by these purely political attacks." fox news' caitlin mcfall contributed to this report, as well as the associated press. (cnn)-- tennessee governor bill lee signed a transgender sports bill into law friday requiring students to prove their sex at birth in order to play in middle and high school sports. the bill states that "a student's gender for purposes of participation in a public middle school or high school interscholastic athletic activity or event be determined by the student's sex at the time of the student's birth, as indicated on the student's original birth certificate." students must show proof of their sex at the time of birth if their birth certificate does not appear to be the original or does not indicate the student's sex at the time of birth. this does not apply to students in kindergarten through 4th grade, the tennessee bill says. "i signed the bill to preserve women's athletics and ensure fair competition," lee tweeted upon signing the bill. "this legislation responds to damaging federal policies that stand in opposition to the years of progress made under title ix and i commend members of the general assembly for their bipartisan work." on thursday, arkansas governor asa hutchinson signed a similar bill -- the fairness in women's sports act -- in his state. and earlier this month, mississippi governor tate reeves also signed into law a similar bill. the tennessee bill, which opponents have called "discriminatory," will require students to play sports based on their birth certificate's gender identification and only compete against other athletes of the same biological sex. "governor lee's rush to sign this discriminatory anti-transgender bill is unfortunately no surprise given how tennessee's elected leaders have aggressively pushed a 'slate of hate' against lgbtq people for the last several years," alphonso david, president of human rights campaign, said in a statement. "this bill legislates against a problem that simply doesn't exist and targets transgender kids who are trying to navigate their adolescence," david said. "transgender kids are kids. excluding and discriminating against them does great harm to them and it weakens the communities in which these children feel excluded and marginalized." on the day the documentary went on air, more than 150 female sports journalists published an appeal calling for “gaining ground” in the profession. the top french media watchdog said that women’s voices were heard in 13% of all radio and tv sports coverage in the country last year. about half of france’s journalists are women, although they make up only 10% of the country’s 3,000 sports journalists. maracineanu, who has been in president emmanuel macron’s government for two years, said she herself experiences sexist attitudes in her job — including some people suggesting she’s not competent or legitimate enough to supervise all sports, especially those traditionally viewed as masculine. “they make me feel i don’t have the right to speak about some topics because social media or even some journalists or commentators feel they are allowed to call into question what i’m saying as sports minister,” she said. “i often get some remarks saying, ‘you, you know about swimming, but you don’t know about soccer or rugby.’” yet things are changing, she added. 